---
title: "Thinkpad T480"
date: "12 Nov 2024 22:22:32"
author: "Moskas"
summary: "A blog post about my Thinkpad setup"
tags: ["Thinkpad", "Laptop", "Nix"]
---
# The reasoning

I was looking for a cheap and portable laptop that will serve me at least a couple of years and will be comfortable to use.  

I hate the current laptop trends, my HP Omen laptop has internal battery that in 2 years have bulged twice. When it happened the second time I gave up on buying another one as it&rsquo;s not worth the fact that even new battery could hold up the charge for 1 hour top.  

So I&rsquo;ve decided to buy a used Thinkpad as it was relatively cheap *over 500 polish złoty is way too much tbh* and should allow me to travel without stressing over battery dying out of nowhere.  

> Can I go on a rant about how stupid prices of tech are here in Poland? Like imagine paying half a thousand for very beaten up and not fully working laptop that&rsquo;s over 6 years old now, c&rsquo;mon.  

# Hardware

I&rsquo;ve bought the i5 model with measly 8GB of ram and 256GB SSD. Not ideal but I can change that down the road. At first I was thinking about buying slightly cheaper L480/490 but the lack of removable battery and poor offers on used market made me drop it in favor of T480.  

In general I was looking for a laptop that could be upgraded if needed and that could be charged with USB-C charger to not bother with proprietary connectors when looking for chargers.  

# Installation

As I&rsquo;m using NixOS I&rsquo;ve created the config for my laptop while it was being shipped to me. After I&rsquo;ve tested that everything is fine *no bios password, system boots up etc.*. I&rsquo;ve plugged in my pendrive with [my custom nixos install iso](https://github.com/Moskas/nixos-config/tree/master/hosts/iso) and after just 3 commands with no additional input (*except for adding passphrase*). I had installed system with full disc encryption and all of my applications and configs.  
Thanks to how popular ThinkPads are, there is even an entry in `nixos-hardware` modules. [Link](https://github.com/NixOS/nixos-hardware/tree/master/lenovo/thinkpad/t480)  

# Issues

My laptop seems to have a dead USB-C port, at least the non-dock USB-C port. That&rsquo;s a bummer but I can live without it as the dock port works for charging.  
The second issue that I have is the fingerprint reader. The `06cb:009a Synaptics, Inc. Metallica MIS Touch Fingerprint Reader` apparently there is a nixos flake that allows to configure it but it fails to build at the moment with my unstable nixos packages. When I made it so the fingerprint flake used it&rsquo;s own nixpkgs it did build and is in my path.  
Only the `fprintd-enroll` throws the following error:  
```bash
Impossible to enroll: GDBus.Error:net.reactivated.Fprint.Error.NoSuchDevice: No devices available
```
Maybe I&rsquo;m doing something wrong but I wasted enough time and rebuilds on it for now.  

# What now?

I still would like to expand my &ldquo;collection&rdquo;. I really like how Thinkpads look in general. There are at least two more models that I would like to get:  

- X61s/T61 - it&rsquo;s beautiful the peak of laptop design.
- X220/230 - great keyboard and top cover design.
